Have you ever had something so
exciting or so important that it
couldn't wait, you had to run home
to tell somebody, get on the phone
and make sure you told them right.
Then anybody had something that
important, that exciting that
they had to stop right then.
Right.
I would say a lot of us have the
one thing I think of if you had
a child and I would not even say,
Hey, we're heading to the hospital.
I would even go back to
the moment you found.
It's that moment of like,
who am I going to call?
I got to stop right now.
I don't, I don't care
when it is who it is.
We're going to make the phone call.
Right?
So many of you have had those moments
where it's this exciting message
or this something that's new in
your life or an important message.
Right?
Hey, your house is on fire.
I remember getting a phone call
and this is kind of off subject,
but I remember getting a phone call
at 3:00 AM when I used to be an
executive pastor back in Oklahoma.
And it was a student of our youth
ministry and he called me and he
said, pastor, The church is on fire.
I look at my phone, pick it back up.
What?
Yes, the church is on fire.
Come to figure out.
As I rushed there, um, our church
was on fire and half our church
had been vandalized and set on
fire was kind of a crazy ordeal.
God used it for his glory and there
were some cool things that came out
of it, but that was an important
message to call the church was on fire.
Right?
Um, well I say that all to say is today,
we're going to talk about a message.
That was so important, but I want
to give you guys just another
example in history about a message.
Anybody know who Paul Revere is?
Anybody, what was Paul
Revere most known for?
What was this?
The British are coming now.
Interesting.
You begin to actually
process through this.
There was a long journey to this.
Wasn't just like running and nonstop.
There was a long journey where he was
saying the British were coming, right.
He was going to warn the colonial
militia of the British invasion at
the battle of Lexington and Concord.
This was setting up for
the war of independence.
Right.
But I started thinking through this.
What if.
Again, Paul Revere.
Here's what we're talking about.
What if Paul didn't take
the message serious?
What if somebody told them the British
are coming and he goes, are you sure?
Now here's another one.
I started thinking through what if
he wasn't in a hurry to share the
message he's probably looking at, man.
I saw I've got dinner tonight.
I got to tuck in the kids
probably going to take a nap.
Uh, what else do I need
to do another thing?
What if the message wasn't clear,
the British are coming sometime,
maybe tomorrow, maybe next year
the British are coming sometime.
And the last one I started thinking
through is what if he spent more time
when he was going on this journey
to get off his horse and say, man,
that journey was so tough, man.
My backside is really hurting me and
forgetting to tell the message, right?
He started focusing more on the difficulty
of the journey than on the message
as I began to think through that,
if those things would have happened,
would we have independence today?
Would that war have actually
went the way it went.
Right.
I started thinking through those things.
Well, today I think it's a challenge
from Paul, the apostle, not Paul Revere,
Paul, the apostle and that same thing.
So we're going to continue to the
first book of Timothy and Paul's
urgency with this message of how the
church should conduct themselves.
And there's going to be a
longer story to this really how
we should conduct ourselves.
Not only in the.
But because the church has the
message of Jesus, the church
has the message of Jesus.
And so why was it so an urgent, and this
is kind of catching you guys up on the
story, the message that Paul has for these
believers that he's writing to is that
if they don't conduct themselves well,
the message of the gospel will not be.
That the church, actually, if we look
in the book of first Timothy, if you've
been with us, you'll see that there was
some false teaching that was happening.
So there would have been more false
teachers that rise up there would have
been more people that were taken away from
the faith, the lead away from the faith,
a lot more distractions in the church.
So this message was critical and it was
critical that it went quickly and that
it went effectively and efficiently.
And so if our conduct is not worthy of
the message, when we think about this
as Paul, uh, Then we are missing out
on the opportunity to really share with
others, this message of the gospel, the
message of the gospel is too important
to those around us to be half-hearted
and to allow it to become tainted by
our conduct and the way that we live.
And this is just a challenge as we
jump into this, when we think about
conduct is just really the way.
The way that we live, and it's
not about perfection at all.
It's really about consistency because
if Christ has changed your life, we're
going to consistently be able to show
others with our life and how we live
also within the church who Christ is.
And so again, kind of catching
you up on where we've been,
Paul's addressing Timothy.
That's why he's written it writing this
letter to Timothy, and he's saying, Hey,
there's false teachers in your church.
They're teaching not the truth, right?
Teaching that the gospel is not right,
that we need to work for our salvation.
That there's some other things that you
should do and follow in order to come to
Christ or income to, to be right with God.
And Paul say, no, that's not.
Right.
It's only the gospel,
the grace, the truth.
So he's writing to Timothy to say,
Hey, address these teachers with
love and truth, love and truth.
And then he says, Hey, there's a
couple of men and there's some,
some women in your churches.
Well, they're distracting the church.
From the mission.
And so he said, address them and
deal with them that he says to set
up some leaders in the church to
make sure that this is happening
to make sure that they are modeling
what it is to be a follower of Jesus.
And then today we get to this
text where Paul says this, this
critical statement in this text.
And so we're getting ready to get into
it where he says, Hey, I need to write
to you because I can't come see you.
With this important message.
So let's jump into it.
So we're all on the same page as
again, this is first Timothy chapter
three, starting in verse 14, it says,
and this is Paul speaking to Timothy.
He says, I write these things to
you, hoping to come to you soon.
But if I should be delayed, I have written
so that you will know how the people ought
to conduct themselves in God's household,
which is the church of the living God,
the pillar of the foundation of truth.
And most certainly the
mystery of godliness is great.
He was manifested in the flesh,
vindicated in the spirit, seen by angels,
preached among the nations and believed
on in the world and taken up into.
So let's pray.
And if I got in, so Lord Jesus,
we are so thankful again for you.
And we pray Lord that you take this
word and Lord you, you poured into our
hearts and help us leave out of here.
Lord changed by this message.
So we pray this in your Hemly name.
Amen.
So Paul shares in this first couple
of verses here, how we should conduct
ourselves in the church and he mentions
this word, the household of God.
And he says the family of God.
But before we get there, I think I want to
kind of come back and mention this again.
Paul is writing this message because
he cannot come to Timothy in person.
So I started thinking through the
same statement we talked about
with Paul Revere, the apostle Paul.
Had a great message.
He says, Hey, it's important on how
we live our lives out for Jesus.
And rather than waiting until I get
out of prison, because he was in prison
and some belief he may have gotten down
and gone and seen them, uh, he may just
been in there and this may have been
the last time that they'd ever saw,
um, daylight was, was in the prison.
But he did not want to wait because
this message was so important.
And when I started thinking about, if
he had delayed in sending this letter
to Timothy, what would have happened?
The church may have been
destroyed in emphasis.
The church may have fallen apart.
They may have began to be so
overwhelmed by the false teachers
that they now were living contrary
to the truth of the gospel.
So it was critical that Paul wrote this.
And I started thinking, man, the message
that we have of Jesus today, we are
celebrating the resurrection of Jesus.
This message of hope is critical.
It's timing of being received, right?
We've received it.
If you're here today at, by the
end of the day, you've received
the message of the gospel.
It is critical to take
that message and go and go.
Because there's no guarantee
that tomorrow's promise.
There's also no guarantee that if
we wait another couple of days, the,
by the time it gets to this person
that they have not been let away.
So this message from Paul is so
critical to speak to us today, right?
Not only to the people that he was
speaking to in Timothy's letter
about, Hey, how you should conduct
yourselves, but to us as a church,
how we should conduct or getting
the word live our lives out in the.
So, again, Paul's talking about this and
I'm kind of moving on here is that Paul's
message throughout this first book was.
Really summed up in verse 15 is that he
is writing to help us as the family of
God know how we should live our lives.
So then the question is how
should we live our lives?
Well, again, Paul has already talked
to us in the first three chapters
about as a church, we should live our
lives to protect the truth, right?
To address false teaching, to,
to not distract people from.
Uh, Christ he's addressing the
men and the women in the church
who were causing distractions.
And he was talking about
setting up leaders.
There's more of it that we're going
to learn the next couple weeks.
So my encouragement is come back
because we're going to learn more about
how the church should conduct itself.
But again, he's talking about how we
should conduct ourselves in order to
make sure that we are keeping Christ at
the center, that we are not distracting
from the message of the gospel, but
he uses this word God's household.
When I think about God's household, it's
really translated the family of God.
I know this is kind of personal question.
How many all like your
family, like your family?
Okay.
So half of us, so, so I know this could,
the other half, your family is not here,
so you don't have to raise your hand.
Don't worry.
We, we took a picture and
we sent it to your family.
So now they know if you truly love them.
Truth, be told majority of
people love their family.
Yeah, I know.
And I want to, I want
to speak to this group.
There's some of you guys
that grew up in a tough home.
And so I know you may have some
bad feelings and some negative
families towards what family is.
And my hope is is that now maybe the
families you currently have, maybe
if you're raising kids now, maybe
this is the family image you have
to have, but you love your family.
Family's important.
So Paul's saying how you should
conduct yourself or how you
should live as the family of God.
When I think of family, I tend to
give a lot more grace and mercy.
I love my family.
I'll take a bullet for my.
I started thinking about how Paul's
addressing the church as a family
of God and how critical that is
for each one of us to think of
the church as a family of God.
Now, when I think about my family, I
think again, about as my, as a, again,
To my sister and my brother, right.
I love them to death.
And I've had some fights with them
and some struggles with them, but
also have really worked hard to
reconcile those relationships.
I've had some struggles with my kids.
We all know raising kids is difficult,
especially 13 year old daughter.
Um, love her to death, but it's
difficult at times, but with the
family of God, it's the same way.
We're all different people.
But all changed by one person, Jesus.
And because we're changed by one person.
And again, once we've given our lives
to Christ, once we've been changed by
Jesus, we now become a family that works
together to show others who Jesus is.
And so how we treat one another is so
important, how we care for one another
and provide for one another's needs
is so important, despite a different.
Because we all look different.
We all act different.
We're not perfect.
We're imperfect people coming together
to say, Hey, we want to be better
because God has changed your life.
And here's how we can be better
by building one up one another
up by forgiving one another
by giving towards one another.
And by, by also just encouraging,
I'm telling you a word of
encouragement will change.
Someone's.
So by Paul speaking directly to this
term of family, it's so important
that we, as the family of God,
conduct ourselves in a manner worthy
of a family, that's that views those
things that I just mentioned together.
And so I usually mentioned this thing.
This is one thing to learn about
inspiring hope is we usually say
after you've attended a couple of
times, we start calling you family.
Now that may be weird to you, and
I'm sorry if it is, but it's just
true because we start viewing you as
somebody that's so important to us.
Somebody that we truly care for, that
we want to walk alongside you to do
life together, to help you know, how to
follow Jesus and know your creator more.
And that's why I think God's calling
us to do what Paul's challenging.
The church do is be a family.
Do what it is that
families do for each other.
Right.
Stick up for one another, be
present and be encouraging.
And I know this, that, that as a church
that does that will, I'm telling you
this, a church that takes care of
each other and loves each other and
build each other up like crisis called
a stew will be the light of Christ.
The world.
There will be people
that will ask questions.
Why do you keep going to that church?
And you could just be like, because their
family, what do you mean their family?
Man.
Let me tell you about a time when
I was going through a rough patch.
Let me tell you about a time
when I was just struggling.
What I wasn't perfect.
When I sinned, when I fell short, they
picked me up, they gave me a hug and
they said, Th they, they show me God's
word and they said, God's word is truth.
And, and God gives us joy
and hope and forgiveness.
And he says that he loves us, even
in our deepest, darkest moments.
Now that's the church that
I want to be a part of.
Right.
And then they're like, oh my gosh.
Like, I don't know churches
that are like that.
Well, why, why is Paul
writing this letter?
Because he's addressing a church
that probably wasn't being.
So it's a challenge today that we should
conduct or live our lives in such a way
that we are a family that we are taking
care of one another so that we can be
the light of Christ to those around us.
So how important is it for the family
of God to conduct themselves worthy?
Uh, as a worthy manner, basically
it's important because we are every
day, whether we know it or not
reflecting Christ, if you have a
relationship with Jesus, getting,
maybe you're not in this room and
you haven't given your life to Jesus.
And if you haven't, I hope
you do before today is up.
But if you've given your life to Jesus
every day, you are writing a story.
You're telling a story with your
life, your actions and your words.
Now, let me just again, say this.
Will you be perfect?
No.
Outside of, you know,
Jesus, we can't be perfect.
And so it's understanding we are
a work in progress, but as we
consistently grow together, we are
going to be a light to those around us.
So it is so important that we are a
family that we show others what family is.
And that's where Paul's getting at here.
Right.
Showing.
Love for one another.
So he says how we should conduct
ourselves with the family.
God, that's the kind of in that verse
15, and we're gonna kind of be in
verse 15 for the most of the time.
And he talks about this
second part, right?
So how we ought to conduct ourselves
in God's household, which is the family
of God, which is the church of the
living God, the church of the living.
God.
So he's talking now directly, how
we should conduct ourselves as
the church or another word for
the church is the called out one.
Right.
The family of God is the
church of the living.
God.
And start thinking about that.
This is what we're talking about today.
The living God, today we are
celebrating Jesus who is not dead.
I'm so thankful.
I'll just tell you this.
I'm so thankful that I do not
follow and worship a dead God.
We're no why?
Cause the get dead.
God has not helped me in my time of need.
He's worthless a dead.
God can not forgive me of my sins
because he has not defeated death
because you just being honest.
My sins be falling short of being able
to be perfect is sending me to death.
I will one day die physically
and spiritually apart from being
forgiven of my sins and Jesus who
is a living, God who rose from
the dead has conquered that death.
And because he's conquered death,
he's the only one that I know
that's ever conquered death.
And now he currently lives in.
And he currently has a relationship with
me because I've chosen to accept his
payment on the cross and his forgiveness
of my sins so that I can experience life
now and I can experience life in heaven.
And I love that picture because I get
to have a relationship with a living
God that does so many things for me.
So many things.
And if it wasn't for Jesus dying
on the cross, then we would
not be able to defeat death.
Jesus's resurrection proved that
death was defeated because of our sin.
Again, we will die one day and I
started thinking about this when we
die one a day, apart from Christ.
W where are we going to go?
A lot of times, so many pastors
will talk about where are we going?
We're going to hell.
What, what, why, why would you talk
about hell on resurrection Sunday?
I started thinking about this.
Why should I even talk about that?
Because here's the, here's the
thing Jesus talked about hell twice
as many times, as he talked about
heaven, you wanna know why now?
Because he wanted anybody to go there.
It was a warning sign.
I'll tell you guys this.
If you're going to drive off a
cliff there, you're going to put as
many warning signs up as possible.
But typically if you're driving
into Florida, there's one side
welcome to Florida, right?
It's great.
Now I'm not saying Florida is heaven.
It may be close.
I like the beaches, but warning
signs, because we don't want
people falling off the cliff.
Jesus talked about hell, because
he does not want us to spend
any eternity separated from him.
He desires for you to know him.
Your creator, why you were alive
is because of God creating you.
And you may say, well, my
parents actually created me with.
They had the ability to do that
because God created humans.
And so when you build that big picture,
your creator loves you so much that he
wants you to know him personally now,
and experience a relationship with
him now and in eternity, in heaven.
So it's so important when we
think about this, he's talking
about the living God, right?
But then he uses this word, the.
The church is again, defined as if you
go and look at the definition of church.
It's the called out once it's not the
come in ones, they called out once.
So here's what we do.
We come in to celebrate, to learn
and to grow and to encourage
and be the family together.
And the we're called to go out
with the message and the hope
of Jesus to those around us.
Who had never experienced that who
have been hurt by other churches who
have never experienced a family of God.
We have been called out to go
present the living God, not the
dead God, but the living God, we
again, have to make that a priority.
When we think about Easter, Easter is a
Sunday that a lot of people will attend.
And if this is the first time you've
attended services in a while, welcome
back, Easter is a great time to attend
service, but I believe Easter is
something that we can celebrate every
day, which is the resurrection of Jesus.
I don't want to make this statement.
I want to be as encouraged as
I can, but it's something I
was challenged with this week.
Um, I actually get an opportunity
to, uh, coach at a CrossFit
gym a couple of times a week.
I was talking to a couple of people
that were working out and I said,
yeah, I got a pretty easy weekend.
It's it's a pretty chill weekend
in there, like looking at me.
And they're like, aren't you a pastor?
And I'm like, yeah.
They're like, isn't this
like your Superbowl weekend?
And I'm like, oh yeah, Easter.
I mean, I wasn't like dumbing down
Easter, but I'm like, yeah, Sunday.
I mean, it's a big day for us.
And I started thinking about, should
Easter be our super bowl Sunday?
And here was my thought.
The day that Jesus rose
was Superbowl Sunday.
The cool part is that ever since then,
every day after has been super bowl,
Sunday is been, the big game is been
the biggest moment of everybody's life
has the opportunity to be changed,
to win the most important thing,
which is the salvation of your life,
forgiveness of your sins and a new
life today, and a new life in eternity.
Is that not true?
Maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe you don't like football.
I'm not going to bring
in a baseball analogy.
I'm sorry, but that's all
I got is a football one.
Right.
But every day should be our
super bowl Sunday because of
what Jesus has done on the cross.
We worship.
Uh, living God, we are the called
out ones to go shine the light of
Christ now, because we have to do
not walk out of here going man.
Another pastor just put another
burden on me to go live like Christ.
And I'm not perfect, guys.
Please understand this.
You will never live the life that
God's called you to live on your
own with that mentality either.
God's never said, take
this burden upon you.
He says no cast all your cares on me on.
Take care of them.
He says, go and live in freedom of
that burden because God is so changed
you that he will work through you.
No matter your personality, your
background, to be able to be the
light of Christ to those around you.
See that's the challenge is that because
God has so changed our life, that
we are called out to share that with
others, the message of the resurrection.
Is so important.
The other people need to
hear it and to see it.
And that's why Paul is challenging.
Timothy.
Your conduct in the church is so
important that you show your, the
family of God that you show you are
the called out ones of a living.
But he doesn't stop there.
Then he says this, he says, we should also
conduct ourselves as the pillars of truth.
Now let's look at this and I'm
gonna kind of pull this back around.
Cause you may be saying, but
isn't Jesus, the pillar truth.
Amen.
He absolutely is.
So let's look at this together and
get out to kind of read 15 together.
He says, but if I should to be delayed, I
have written to you so that you will know
how people ought to conduct themselves
in God's household, the family of God.
Right.
Which is the church of the living
God, the, the called out ones
of the living God, the pillar
and the foundation of the truth.
Jesus.
Yes, he is the pillar and
the foundation of the truth.
We are facing daily.
With people that are constantly trying
to pull us away and draw us away from
what the truth is that does anybody
ever get distracted by false statements?
And I'm not talking about the Facebook
labels that say this, this may be
false, although that could be you too.
Cause that's probably false as well,
but I don't care what news outlet you
listened to, what newspaper you listen
to, what radio you listen to, what
person you talked to down the road.
Every one of them is, is
going to tell you their truth.
And the question is what is true?
What is truth.
And today I want to challenge you
with this, that Jesus is truth.
He is the pillar of truth.
And I'm going to get to a little bit
more of how you going to understand
it, but, but think about this.
If Jesus is truth, his word is truth.
Then we can not get
distracted by anything else.
That's false because anytime we hear
something else, we can come back
to the word and say, is this truth?
And if it's not, we reject it
because God's word is true.
Again, because the
world is distracting us.
Truth is something that we grasp onto.
It's something that we have been, we've
been experienced or we've been changed by.
And this is what I always tell people
this I'm not a pastor because Hey,
I was just looking for a job to do.
And, you know, I just really want
to figure out how to make a lot of
money in the ministry because you
know, that's what pastors do now.
I literally am standing here today
because I've been changed by the.
I'll tell you this catch somebody
who has been changed by something and
those whereby the rest of the license.
I shouldn't say swear in the
church, but they'll live by it.
If they've been changed by it.
I'm standing here today because I've
been changed by the truth of Jesus been
forgiven because I was broken, been
helped when I was in need, seeing God
show up and miraculous ways over and
over again, because that's who God is.
I've been so changed by God.
I stand here today.
Somebody that lived in Oklahoma two
and a half years ago, I, it here today
because God said, go share the truth here.
And all of us, all of us.
Can experience the truth of Jesus, the
pillar of truth, which is this, this truth
that is raised up above everything else.
And it can take away all the things
that again, are false in your life.
All the things that are trying to distract
you, all the things that are trying to
sway you away from who God is, what he's
designed you for relationship with him.
And again, that relationship
is not a burden.
It's a.
So this pillar of truth is so important
as we cleaned to this pillar, though,
this is the challenge I want you to
see in this, as we cleaned this truth,
we now begin to live out that truth.
We become pillars of truth.
I want you to see this.
If you clean to the truth of Jesus,
who is the pillar of truth and
you receive it and you live it,
you have now become the pillar of.
The pillar of Chanel.
Now you may be saying, cause
I define a lot of things.
What is the word pillar?
What is a pillar?
A pillar is a statue put on a
pedestal so everyone can see it.
Or it's a statue that holds the truth
up to be displayed tall and high.
So think about this.
Each day when you leave out of your
home or you wake up and you take care
of your kids or you go to work or
you're at the grocery store or for
some of you that log on to go to work.
Okay.
I don't know where you are in it,
but you are a statue on a pillar.
Portraying truth to the whole world
of who Jesus is, that Jesus is alive,
that he loves you, that he can forgive
you, that he can walk alongside you.
The, he brings hope, joy, patience,
peace, everything that God gives
is in his word, which is truth.
And if you'll get in there and you'll
start receiving it and you'll start
living it, you will be a pillar of truth.
See how we conduct ourselves in the
church is so important because here's the.
If we don't truly believe that we've been
changed by the gospel, by what Jesus has
done, we won't go be pillars of truth.
Right?
Why would we, because we don't
fully believe it, but when we
believe it, we become that.
So for some of us today, maybe I just need
to receive what the pillar of truth is.
He received who Jesus is.
That's how it become a light to the world.
Is any received the message.
So again, our conduct and our life
displays the truth of Jesus every
day, whether we believe it or not.
And I started thinking through this,
you may be the only, and you hear
these statements before you may
be the only Bible someone reads.
You may be now listen to this.
You may be the only
church someone attends.
What are you talking about?
Because if they, if they just
meet with me, is that church?
Well, church is the called out ones.
You're the church.
You're part of the church.
Does that make sense?
You may be the only church
someone sees and experiences.
Let me challenge you with the last
one, the presence, you may be the
only presence of Christ they ever
experience because God lives inside
of you and you go live it out.
When you are standing, when you
are talking, when you were engaging
someone next to you, whether it's at
your home at your office or in the.
If you don't go to Walmart, it's Kroger.
If you're standing next to someone
and you have the presence of Christ
in you, you are maybe the closest
they've ever been to who Jesus is.
See that, that changes my mentality
with life, because it's not about me
anymore because man I've been changed.
It's about those who don't know
Jesus now, because I'm trying
to push an agenda on them.
I've just been changed, man.
And F I've been changed, uh,
really want somebody else to
experience that same change.
And so it just flows out of me.
And I remember this statement
by kid who was talking to his
dad and his dad's telling him
that Jesus lives inside of him.
And he's like, well,
dad, I just don't get it.
And he said, son, what do you mean?
He said, dad, if Jesus lived
inside me, wouldn't he stick?
That's logical, right?
He's a little kid and Jesus is God
absolutely send your ripe every day when
we're pillars of truth, Jesus sticks out.
Amen.
That's why Paul saying your conduct in
the church, your, the way you live your
life in the church, the called out ones
is so important to be pillars of truth.
Why?
Because Jesus is alive.
Jesus.
It's alive.
And he is alive every day, wanting
to know each one of us personally, to
wanting to walk alongside us every day
for us to know him every single day.
That's the God that we serve.
See Philippians two 14 through
16, says this, do everything
without grumbling or arguing.
Man, I need to hear this every day so
that you may be blameless and pure.
Children of God who are faultless in a
crooked and perverted generation among
whom you shine, like stars in the world
by holding firm to the word of life.
We are stars shining the
truth of Jesus every day.
So how does our conduct, right?
How does that affect the
message of the gospel?
So think about this.
How our conduct, how we conduct
ourselves as the family of God,
the called out ones, the pillars
of truth will affect how others
understand the mystery of the gospel.
Let's verse 16, verse 16 says
this and the most certainly the
mystery of godliness is great.
That we're great is like great
and understanding like the
mystery of it is, is, is large.
It's hard to fully grasp.
Right.
And he goes on and he says, and he
was manifested in the flesh and he was
vindicated in the spirit, seen by angels
preached among the nations bleed on,
in the world and taken up into glory.
And this is, speaking of Jesus, see the
mystery of the gospel again is great.
And, and here's the other thing, the
mystery of why followers of Jesus
live the way they do is great because
I've been challenged so many times.
Ben, why do you live the way you live?
And I always say, man, because I've
been changed now because I have to, but
because of been changed, so that mystery
is great, but because the mystery is
great, the world around us needs us to
explain and to live a life that explains
that mystery to them, non perfection,
but actually in true honesty because
when you come before others and you're
broken, you don't have it all together.
You get to say, Hey, welcome to church.
Cause we don't have it all together.
If.
Did you wouldn't want to be around us?
Cause we'd find a way to screw it up.
We don't have it all together.
So I hope that we can just
relate with one another.
Right?
So you can be the church
to those around us.
So we have to challenge ourselves
just as Paul challenging us to
be the light of those around us.
Right.
And it's so important when we think
about this, that the, the, our conduct
is so important because Jesus came
into the world to save sinners, right?
Who are sinners?
All of us there.
Ain't one of us in here that
can say, Hey, I'm perfect.
Right?
So Jesus came for every single one
of us so that we can experience.
What God has forced
forgiveness of our sins.
And I always tell people this, if
you're sitting here thinking what,
there's some law I'm telling you,
I want to give you this example.
I spent a year in the church listening to
the gospel and try to make myself right.
Trying to get everything right in my life.
And here's what I was
always challenged with men.
You know, I just, well, there's
certain things I want to do.
I don't want to give up this and
I don't want to say no to that.
And by the end of it, it finally
got to this idea that everything
that God offered to me was.
See, sin is not God's best for you.
God's got something better for you.
If we would stop looking at living for
Jesus as giving up all the things I like
to do and start thinking of, of, of living
for Jesus is experiencing God's best,
which is better than what I had before.
Does that make sense?
We would change the way we follow Jesus.
We would change the way
maybe even coming to Jesus.
Can I be a testimony today
I've experienced that.
And I've seen what I had before is nothing
compared to what I have now through Jesus.
See, those are the things
we share with the world.
So God has called us again,
to challenge ourselves, to, to
conduct yourselves in a way.
And so this verse reminds us
of this, and this is where the
story of Jesus comes in, right?
He was manifested in the flesh.
What does that mean?
That Jesus was manifested in the flesh.
It was basically this, that
God was made known to the world
through Jesus in the flesh.
God came down from heaven
and he decided to come.
Jesus.
And he says, I'm going to walk and
live and have flesh just like you.
And I'm going to have to sleep
and I'm going to have to eat.
And I'm going to have mood swings.
Maybe Jesus did a mood swings disease.
Perfect.
So he probably ate plenty of
food because I know I don't,
but Jesus was God in the flesh.
Here's what I'll tell you this, the God I.
I didn't just say, Hey, figure it out.
He says, Hey, let me go walk alongside
you and live the life that you have
to live and show you how to live it
and how, yes, it's difficult, but
I'll be with you everywhere you go.
See, that's what I love when he talks
about he was manifested in the flesh.
God didn't stay in heaven
and he came to earth.
Then he talks about, he was
vindicated in the spirit.
That word is great.
He was vindicated what it was
that Jesus was made, right.
When.
I thought he was wrong.
Right?
This is what this means.
Jesus was proved to be correct.
After people said he was wrong.
See Jesus would walk around.
And again, he wasn't much to say
this, but people would ask the
question, are you the son of God?
He said, yes.
And he would talk about that.
He was here to save people from
their sins and to show forgiveness.
And people didn't believe him, but when
he hung on the cross and he died and
he was in the tomb for three days and
he rose back from the dead, he proved
that he was there to conquer death,
that he was there to conquer our Senate.
He was there to be with us
one day in glory and heaven.
And so that right there was Jesus being
vindicated made ride by who he truly is.
Can we be vindicated?
Absolutely.
When we give our lives to
Jesus, we're vindicated through
a relationship with Jesus.
We are made right.
When others want to point at
us and say that you're broken.
Absolutely I'm broken, but
I'm made right through Jesus.
So everyday we now get to be vindicated
because Christ was vindicated.
So then it says that
Jesus was seen by angels.
Speaking of after his resurrection,
then he talks about the Jesus
was preached among the nations.
Why was Jesus preached among the nations?
Here's what I believe, because there
was people that were so changed by
Jesus, that they took the message.
And they begin to conduct themselves as
the church ought to conduct themselves
as the family of God, as the called
out ones, as a pillar of truth.
See, he was preached because people had
been changed, not because they felt like
they were suppressed into preaching.
Jesus, I'll tell you nobody would
do that because at some point at
the end of it, you become a burden.
No, they preached because
they were changed by Jesus.
So they preached this message
and here's the cool part.
Not only was he preached
among the nations.
And I think about this, if he
wasn't preached among the nations,
we wouldn't be in this church.
You know that because we would've never
got the message and I want to be the
church that preaches the truth among the
nations, so that some other church that
begins to meet can look back and say,
because we were faithful in preaching the
message they are there today, but not only
did he preach these, these people preach
the message so that the world could.
It says that they believe this is
Jesus was believed on by many in the
world because of the faithful people
that shared the message, God used that
message to transform people's lives
and they begin to believe, and that
kept going over and over again, until
we see today, we are a church that has
changed by Jesus who has manifested in
the flesh, indicated in the spirit, seen
by angels preached among the nations.
People believed.
And then it says that he
was taken up into glory.
Here's one of the beautiful parts
Jesus was taken up into heaven.
And you may say, why did
he leave us on earth?
Because if Jesus would have
stayed on earth, everybody
would have just followed Jesus.
And at some point it would have gotten
too big of a crowd and everybody
wouldn't have got their time with Jesus.
So this is what Jesus said.
It is better for me to leave the new stay.
Why?
Because the holy spirit, which
is God in us, Is now Jesus saying
I actually get to go further in
the world because I'm leaving.
So he went back to be with his
father and he says, whenever I go,
I will prepare a place for you.
And I will come back.
Here's the cool part.
Jesus is not just leaving
us to figure it all out.
Jesus left himself inside of us.
When we give our lives to Christ, he
is inside of us and he walks with us.
So the greatest story of Easter is
what Jesus has done for every one of us
to transform our lives, to change our
lives, to give us hope and forgiveness,
to give us grace and to give us mercy.
So we celebrate Easter because
we have a story and we have a
message of hope to share it with.
Again, celebrating.
It reminds us that we need to live a
life worthy of the message of the gospel.
Not just one day, a
year on Easter, but 365.
And is it 66?
If there's a leap year,
I didn't state that one.
Maybe you get that one off.
Okay.
But just so you know,
we need to receive it.
We need to remember it and we need
to share it with those around us.
We are, I want to challenge
you guys this as a church, we
are the family of God on this.
We are the called out ones, the
church and the world to be stars
shining the light of Jesus.
We are the pillars of truth, holding
at the truth of Jesus to be displayed
so that many in the world can hear
that Jesus, the son of God has
conquered our brokenness in our sin.
He's conquered our death
and he is alive today.
And we can be alive in God
today, ready and willing.
God is ready and willing to have a
personal relationship with each one of
us in this room, we have the choice to
receive that Jesus has changed my life.
I've seen him change so many people's
lives in this church and in my life
that I will continue to preach this
message, every opportunity I get, but
I'm not the only one God has given
us Easter resurrection, Sunday, this
message of hope to take with us into the.
My challenge, every single Sunday
that I get the opportunity is this,
what is God calling you to take a next
step in here in a moment we're going
to have something we call invitation.
This is a time where you may get the
most quiet time of your whole week.
Especially if you have kids being
washed back there, you don't have
anything that's going on right now.
This is a moment to just be
clear-minded and say this.
Okay.
God.
I heard a message from your word
about what you've done for the
world, what you've done for me.
What's my response.
What is my next step?
I think this, this is, this
is my challenge to you.
Number one, your next step may
be to give your life to Jesus.
It may be to say, Hey,
I've heard this message.
I've heard that I can
receive grace and mercy.
I've heard that I'm I'm broken
and that I, I need forgiveness.
And today you can receive.
How do you receive Christ is
by repenting of your sins.
Recognize you need for God
and beginning to live for him.
Perfect.
No broken.
Yes.
Taking steps of faith every day.
Do you have to do it alone?
No, because we're going to be the
family of God doing it together.
So if that's you today and you,
haven't given your life to Jesus
and you're wondering should have.
What, what maybe you have
questions about them?
Here's the great thing.
Every single week I stayed in the back.
Not because I liked the back, but because
I stayed back there for you, that darn
invitation, when we're considering what
God has taught us, we go back there, you
can go back there and you can say, Hey,
pastor Ben, and you just call me Ben,
by the way, Hey, I got some questions
about what it means to follow Jesus.
And if you do, I'll try to answer those.
And maybe it's just the
starter conversation.
And maybe there's a couple more
conversations we need to have, but maybe
that's the first step for you to St.
Have questions.
So if that's you during this time of
invitation, when we start to seeing you
come back there and talk to me, here's
the, the, the next thing that I think is
that those of you who came in this room
that had been saved the Easter you've
already celebrated Easter before you
you've been made new, you have a new life.
If you've given your life to
Christ, what is the take home?
Here's the take home.
Live a life worthy of the message
that we've received today.
Perfect.
No consistent.
Yes.
Consistently going to Jesus and
saying, Jesus used me to do what to do.
What?
Think about it.
God has called us to conduct
ourselves as the family of God.
Be a family.
God has called us.
To be the called out once the
light of Christ to the world.
And God has called us
to be a pillar of truth.
All my challenge today to you is
to ask God, you're in this time of
invitation, how can I make Christ known
to the world, a pillar with the truth?
I don't know that answer for you, but you.
Can work it out during
this time of invitation.
And here's my encouragement during
this time, as we, as we transitioned
to the music, I just want you to just
pray and say, Lord, what is it that I
need to take a next step of faith in?
If it's the next step of faith,
faith in him, then come talk to me.
If it's the next step of faith to just be.
Bold with your faith.
Take that step, whatever it is.
I challenge you to not leave out of here
today because of what Christ has done for
us to not take a next step in your faith.
So let's pray, Lord
Jesus, we thank you Lord.
For today.
We thank you for the message of hope.
Jesus.
Today is a day that we
celebrate you and Lord.
The cool part is that we celebrate you
and then whatever we have given our lives
to Christ, we get to celebrate you again
because of what you've done in our lives.
But Lord that message of the living.
God doesn't have to stay
here on Easter Sunday.
It can be here tomorrow and the day
after, and the day after in every one
of our lives, Lord, you've given us
the holy spirit to live inside of us
to be the light of Christ the world.
May we not leave out of here?
Burdened with that?
May we actually have out of here free
knowing Lord that you have committed to
work through us, despite our weakness.
Lord to share with others,
the hope we have in you.
Lord, I pray that if there's someone
in this room is struggling to take
that next step of faith in you, Lord,
if it's somebody struggling to take
the next step of being the light of
Christ in the world, Lord, I pray that
today you remove that barrier, that
burden, and they take that next step.
Lord, I pray that they come and
talk with me or they, they pray
and they are so changed by the
spirit of God inside of them.
Lord, that they take that.
Because Lord, you are worth it.
Your message of hope is worth it.
And we praise you and we thank you for it.
So Lord, we love you and we praise you
and we pray this in your headline name.
Amen.